# scripts
This directory contains various scripts used by the pipeline.
However, you can use most of these scripts on their own, too. Some may even be helpful in day-to-day use.

All python scripts implement the `--help` argument. For bash, R, and awk scripts, you can run `head <script>` to read about their usage.

### [2vcf.py](2vcf.py)
A python script that uses files from the `prepare` and `classify` pipelines to create a VCF with the final, predicted variants. This script also has a special internal mode, which can be used for recalibrating the QUAL scores output in the VCF.

### [allele_conflicts.bash](allele_conflicts.bash)
A bash script for identifying sites at which the variant callers in our ensemble outputted conflicting alleles.

### [cgrep.bash](cgrep.bash)
A bash script for extracting columns from TSVs via `grep`. Every argument besides the first is passed directly to `grep`.

### [classify.awk](classify.awk)
A fast awk script for classifying each site in a VCF as DEL, INS, SNP, etc. It accepts a two column table (REF and ALT) from the VCF.

### [classify.bash](classify.bash)
A bash script for converting all REF/ALT columns in a TSV to binary positive/negative labels using `classify.awk`.

### [fillna.bash](fillna.bash)
A bash script for replacing NA values in a large TSV.

### [filter.bash](filter.bash)
A bash script for filtering rows from a large TSV by specific columns.

### [importance_plot.py](importance_plot.py)
A python script for creating plots of the importance of each variable (ie feature) outputted by each variant caller.

### [metrics.py](metrics.py)
A python script for calculating evaluation metrics on a two column TSV of binary labels: truth and predictions.

### [metrics_table.py](metrics_table.py)
A python script for summarizing multiple metrics files output by `metrics.py` in a nicely formatted table.

### [norm_nums.awk](norm_nums.awk)
A fast awk script for ensuring that unusual numerical values in a large TSV can be read by R.

### [prc.py](prc.py)
A python script for creating precision-recall plots. It takes as input the output of `metrics.py` and/or `statistics.py`.

### [predict_RF.R](predict_RF.R)
An R script for predicting variants using a trained classifier. It takes as input a model generated by `train_RF.R`.

### [roc.py](roc.py)
A python script for creating ROC plots. It takes as input the output of `statistics.py`.

### [statistics.py](statistics.py)
A python script for generating points to use in a precision-recall or ROC curve. It takes as input a two column TSV: true labels and prediction p-values.

### [train_RF.R](train_RF.R)
An R script for creating a trained classifier. We recommend using the `Snakefile-classify` pipeline to run this script.

### [tune_plot.R](tune_plot.R)
An R script for visualizing the results of hyperparameter tuning from the `train_RF.R` script.
